hello everybody my name is J I'm one of
the expert IELTS teachers here at e to
language I'm an expert because I've
taken this test like heaps of times the
reason I did is I was aspiring to get
straight nines I got three nines and an
8.5 not too bad but I learnt a lot by
doing this test and deconstructing this
test and one of the most difficult
reading questions that you will find
drumroll is well match headings so this
is IELTS reading super skills we're
going to focus on this question type
which bamboozles people on test day so
these are the different reading question
types that you will you might see you
won't see all of them but you'll see
certainly see some of them on test day
so we're focusing on number 5
matching headings let me just explain
what you need to do in this task so okay
this is a bit of a combination between
computer-delivered and the paper based
IELTS test let's read the instructions
when all else fails you should read the
instructions it says the text here's the
text here right this is the text the
text has seven paragraphs here's one
paragraph his two paragraphs you can
imagine down below there are more there
another five and that paragraphs are
labeled a to G his a his B the C etc
down below
choose the correct heading here's the
headings right four paragraphs a to G
from the list of headings below and then
write the number like this is a number
by the way this is like a Roman numeral
write this in here let's go through it
I'll tell you what to do what you need
to do is this you need to read at that
paragraph there then you need to look at
the headings and you need to read the
headings and you need to choose a
heading that best matches that paragraph
okay and then you write that funny
little number thing into your answer
sheet right so your answer sheet will
sort of look like this because paragraph
a is number one right I won't to say
that and paragraph B is number two and
paragraph C is number three and you're
right for example
three or three eyes or four or five or
one or nine etc on your answer sheet so
that's what we'll look that's what will
go on your answer sheet I'm really sorry
this is so crazy but this is what the
aisle sort of looks like and it's very
good to prepare for the IELTS so on test
day you're not trying to work this stuff
out and you can just focus on reading
and getting the correct answer okay it
is confusing because it's a language
test and they need to somehow test your
language and they need to put all this
stuff in here and stuff in there anyway
let's look at the method I'm gonna show
you how to do this one this is what the
step by step process you should
undertake in order to answer this
correctly first thing you should do when
you get some of these on test day is
look at the headings so just have a
quick scan read of those nine different
headings for me I'll give you ten
seconds no no 20 seconds
okay you can gain a little bit of
information by reading those headings
obviously it might confuse you but you
can see that there's something to do
with robots you can see there's
something to do with newspapers right
you need to just scan read those just
for ten seconds 20 seconds max then the
way you do this is you read from the
paragraph right you need to read this
carefully you need to read it quickly
but carefully as well then after you've
read the paragraph you go back to the
list of headings and then you have to
decide which heading best matches that
paragraph and then you do the same for
be read the paragraph and then you go to
the list of headings and you decide for
B which heading is the best and you go
to here answer sheet and you put it in
anyway I hope you understand all that
let's just do it it's not test day so
but anyway it's a good practice I want
you to do this one then when we're going
to do is a bit of a mix between IELTS
general and IELTS academic it'll be good
for both if you're taking general or
academic it's certainly not easy yeah
it's a good one it's a good one let's
have a look at it I'm gonna give you
three minutes for each one okay
so away you go you have three minutes to
find the heading for the paragraph a and
four paragraph B and to write down on a
piece of paper whether it's 1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 on your answer sheet you have
three minutes to answer these two
you
okay that's three minutes we're now
going to move on to paragraph C and D
ABCD so you're gonna answer questions
number three and four you have three
minutes for these two
you
okay we're going to now move on to the
final three paragraphs e F and G which
on your answer sheet will be the
equivalent of five six and seven you
have three minutes to do all three of
these
you
okie-dokie how did you go hopefully
while our you were doing this you would
read the paragraph and hopefully you
would look at the headings and there
were there were nine headings and you
would go to data that won best matches
this paragraph I can see why that would
be a good heading to put on top to
summarize this paragraph into a single
phrase or idea okay
now we're about to look at the answers
just in terms of timing I think that
three minutes like a minute and a half
per paragraph is probably a little bit
too long but I wanted you to spend some
time and get this right personally I
think this question type is the most
challenging in IELTS reading and I think
this is the one that people screw up
this is the one where they sort of rush
through and do poorly yeah this is this
and I just I just remembering a few of
the IELTS reading tasks proper tests
that I took I remember walking away and
just thinking wow that that matching
headings task was definitely the most
difficult was the most ambiguous was the
one where you thought I really can't be
certain about those answers whereas I
feel that multiple choice and true/false
not given there was most certainty for
the answers anyway if you're watching
this on youtube live do click like leave
a comment and think about sharing this
with your friends who don't know about e
to ions and who might benefit from e to
ions that would be a good thing let's
now have a look at the answers and I
explain why they are the way they are
here we go let's do this one this is the
key sentence in this paragraph so this
is a the key sentences the daily paper
is compiled at the editorial
headquarters known as the pre-press
Center in the heart of the city but
printed far away in the suburbs at the
printing Center so the paper is compiled
in one place and printed in another
place look at the headings robots
working together no preparing LGV
no looking ahead no the LGBs main
functions no
lit location for newspaper production
hmm let's have a look at this split
location the daily paper is compiled
here and it is printed there the answer
is five number one is five okay let's
have a look at B here paragraph B the
key sentence and the key words are these
once the finished newspaper has been
created for the next morning's edition
all the pages are transmitted
electronically from the pre-press Center
to the printing Center the system of
transmission delivers sent have a look
at the headings which one would you
choose looking at those keywords okay I
think it's probably seven getting the
newspaper to the printing Center
delivery send transmit you can see that
this paragraph matches best with that
heading there let's have a look at
paragraph C these are the key sentences
by the way you can see that I have
struck out these two sentences these two
headings here and you might want to do
that on test day when you use a heading
strike it out there's no instruction
here that says you can use the same
heading more than once so as soon as you
use one you strike it out because then
it increases your chances for the other
headings here we go here are the key
sentences with lights flashing and
warning horns honking the robots to give
them their correct name the LGV Zoar
laser-guided vehicles look for all the
world like enthusiastic machines from a
science-fiction movie as they follow
their random paths around the plant
busily getting on with their jobs
security staff tall tales are already
being told about the Machine starting to
take on personalities of their own
robots working together not quite
preparing LGBs for takeover well looking
ahead
yeah the LGV main functions newspapers
superseded by technology controlling the
robots or beware of robots this is a
tricky one the answer is number nine
beware of robots tricky one that once
that one's that one's hard its I guess
because it's talking about automated
vehicles it's talking about flashing
lights warning horns let's move on and
look at the next one because that one
was really tough d let's have a look
here the first phrase gives this away
the robots principal job however is to
just look at that the robots principal
job now look at the headings and see
which one you can match now remember the
robots are also called LG V's hopefully
you're looking at number four there
which says the LG V's main functions it
also says in the second sentence the LG
vs collect the appropriate size paper
reals and take them where they have to
go that paragraph is about the LG V's
the robots main functions how are you
going so far we've done for number one
was five number two was seven number
three was nine number four was four
let's do paragraph e the key sentences
here are the key phrases are then one of
the four pasted robots moves in when the
press computer calls for a real and LG v
takes it to the real loading area of the
presses when the bin is full another LG
v collects it and deposits the cause
into a shredder for cycling sorry
recycling list of headings which one are
we talking about here
first one I think it's that one robots
working together that's what this
paragraph is about so you'll put against
number five on your answer sheet there
little symbol for one let's look at F
this one you have to read the entire
paragraph now we've eliminated one four
five seven and nine we're left with two
three six and eight okay
the paragraph here says the LGV move at
walking speed should anyone step in
front of one or get too close senses
stop the vehicle until the path is clear
the company has chosen a laser guide
function system for the vehicles because
as the project development manager says
the beauty of it is that if you want to
change the routes you can work out a new
route on your computer and lay it down
for them to follow when an LG these
batteries run low it will take itself
offline and go to the nearest battery
maintenance point for replacement
batteries bla bla bla bla bla
I think the key part of this is the
quote from the manager says the beauty
of it is that if you want to change the
routes you can work out a new route on
your computer and lay it down for them
to follow now look at the headings I
think that one matches best with number
eight controlling the robots it doesn't
work with any other heading as well gee
this one's probably the easiest one and
this one you have to read the whole
paragraph the question newspaper workers
must now ask however is how long will it
be before the robots are writing the
newspapers as well as running the
printing center churning out the latest
addition every morning now we've only
got a few headings left preparing LG vs
for takeover or looking ahead really
let's think about those two because
number six newspapers superseded by
technology well it could be all three of
these in fact
it's a bit of a trick the best answer
here while preparing LGBs for takeover
Nora that's not what it's about
newspapers superseded by technology no
this is a prediction G the paragraph G
is a prediction and therefore it has to
be three looking ahead
so on your answer sheet you should have
written this five seven nine four one
eight and three just type into the chat
what score you got out of seven I'm
curious what did you get out of seven
how many did you get right how many did
you get right let's look back but but
but five six five five four six six six
four four four six three six three four
three six five zero Oh 200 yeah not easy
really not easy okay it's it's kind of
easy when I show you the answers and you
go
ah of course that was it that makes
sense now but in the heat of the moment
when you're making those decisions about
which heading matches that paragraph a
couple of things you need to do one you
need to eliminate the impossible answers
or eliminate the answers that just don't
make sense go no it's not that one it's
not that one's definitely not that one
not that one maybe that one I'll think
about that no no maybe then you look at
those two and you go you read quickly
read the paragraph again get that
meaning and then go back we go ah yeah
okay it's that one but then move on it's
a process of elimination now how long
should you spend reading the paragraph
should you read the entire paragraph yes
you need to read the entire paragraph
I've given some advice before that said
you just need to read the topic sentence
but it's not quite true the topic
sentence is important as we saw some of
them you could but a lot of them you
needed to read the entire paragraph how
do you read it
need to speed read it speed readings
means that you're not just looking at it
it means that you're reading a bit just
very quickly but you're still extracting
the meaning okay
you need to speed read and on test day
it makes it particularly hard because
you know it's stressful your heart's
pumping your hands are sweating your
knees are shaking and you're trying to
work through this you'd still need to
read very carefully but very fast
careful and fast careful and fast then
go to the heading duck duck Duck Duck
you may need to go back because you're
unsure careful and fast careful and fast
back bone make a decision then move to
the next one remember it's paragraph
first then the headings don't go don't
go from paragraphs time don't go from
heading don't go from heading to
paragraphs because that's impossible
paragraph two headings paragraph
headings yeah I think that makes sense
anyway guys if you need help with your
IELTS test should check out this
unbelievably good website for IELTS
preparation
it's a hundred percent online we have a
full online course we also offer
one-on-one tutorials with exile
examiners if you want to really focus in
on your writing or your reading or your
speaking
probably not listening we also offer
writing feedback we offer methods
lessons like this one for every single
task there is heaps and heaps of writing
samples lots and lots of stuff to do
there's a budget package you can sign up
for for 69 US dollars it's a pretty damn
good way to prepare for your IELTS if
you're watching this on youtube live do
click like and now we're going to QA
and I'll answer a few questions in zoom
and on YouTube live that was a quick one
but a good one I think yeah that was a
good one what do we got any questions
Surabhi is it possible that we can get
matching headings i think i'm
interpreting your question here with the
same heading twice no
I'm not a hundred percent sure but I'm
almost entirely sure I'm gonna say no
but just do read the instructions
any questions on YouTube live 166 people
watching Jay please tell me how to
identify the main idea from the whole
passage oh man well as we saw okay let's
let's let's let's ask a broader question
what is a paragraph what is a paragraph
a paragraph should be a single idea a
single idea that's been mmm extrapolated
on a single idea that's been beefed up
so you've got an idea let's say you want
to write about why Mercedes are the best
cars right so that's the central idea
Mercedes are the best cars you can buy
right that's the central idea that's
what the paragraphs about but you might
talk about the paint and the engines and
how fast they go and how cool the
leather interior is and how nice the
badge is and the price is reasonable
okay that's the main idea was that
Mercedes are the best car and we've used
all of this surrounding information to
build that idea that's what a paragraph
is and that's what you need to
understand so you're reading surrounding
information but what you're thinking is
what is the essential idea of this
paragraph and we saw in some of them
that you needed to read the entire thing
we saw in some that was just a few
sentences that really got that main idea
out oh you know what which part of the
reading is more important they're all
important all the reading questions are
important on test they should do them
all I some require longer periods of
time to complete including match
headings and matching information the
matching questions what is the way to
write an essay for you to disagree or
disagree may Huck please watch the other
methods lessons on essay writing that
all on YouTube
they're they're very comprehensive Jay
is it possible to get all I don't get
that question sorry you said we should
read the paragraph before we go to the
heading correct
I mean scan read the headings then go to
the paragraph read the paragraph get the
main idea then go to the headings ago
arts that one well you know easier said
than done
what percentage of heading questions are
expected to come well yeah I usually
there will be about 7 out of the 40
questions will be matching heading 6 or
7 usually six or six to eight paragraphs
I guess something like that I don't know
what what percentage that is me huh I
didn't find any video lesson on do you
agree or agree is disagree essay
question there in there I promise you if
not go to youtube and check them out
Imani Jay I want to say thank you your
advice last live class made it easier
for me to go through my training cool
thank you nice you're welcome
Jay I have always gotten a 7.5 in
reading is it possible to make a 9 look
getting a 90s tough really tough ah yeah
I mean even if you get I think it's like
if you get two questions wrong or three
questions wrong it drops to an eight
point five if you get five questions
wrong it drops to an eight it might even
be more strict than that it's tough I've
done it but yeah well it's not easy
mostly says we can decide on heading
only by reading first and last sentences
is it right no you need to read the
entire paragraph and you need to speed
read the entire paragraph is there any
criteria to get correct heading I don't
know what you mean there how can we
increase our reading speed faster yeah
well having good vocabulary that that
you immediately recognize so you're not
thinking oh what's that word again
that's wasting time if you look at a
word and be you know the meaning of it
that's excellent
also grammar there's meaning hitting
hidden in grammar
you see a funny sentence construction
can you derive the meaning from that
sentence it's it's it's it's fundamental
skills and then it's practice how do you
improve my speaking tasks I highly
recommend the PPF method past present
future you tell three stories in that
two minutes you can watch those videos
up there somewhere
or rather it's it's it works you have to
be flexible we have to change it a
little bit cording to the prompt you get
but it does work really well jr. I've
used it I've used it three times and got
nine 98.5 no nine nine nine eight point
five so yeah it does work J I've been
following your presentations for the
past two weeks they're helping me a lot
thank you
Thank You Perry that's that's fabulous
if you feel like sharing them putting
them on your Facebook or something like
that please feel free to do that because
it'll help other people and that's nice
J I mean I did the PPF method and got an
eight I need a nine why do you need a
nine that's crazy that's really hard
that's great that you can Nate though
fantastic that's should be the highest
okay YouTube live what do we go I love
you sir thank you
dill bag dosanjh I'm not able to get the
gist of the large paragraph give some
tips on it okay here's a good question
if I get a matching headings here's this
is a great question this is really
interesting to think about okay so in
reading you get a range of different
questions right you might get some true
false not given and there's a multiple
choice and then you might get the
matching headings and then you might get
something else
Akram here has asked should I start with
the match headings it's actually a
really interesting question I think you
probably should the reason is that it
will give you a very good overview of
what you're reading because it's based
on the whole text so what happens in the
exam is let's say
the first questions which a true false
not given there based on the you could
derive those answers from the top of the
text from the first and second
paragraphs for example then the multiple
choice come in this third and fourth
paragraphs and then the matching
headings are based on all of the
paragraphs so you can if you want to
start with match headings because it
will give you allow your brain to look
at those paragraphs and pick up those
key words it's actually a damn good idea
I like it yeah Janey are the complexity
of the reading passages in IELTS general
the same as academic appreciate your
expert opinion on it pretty similar to
be honest pretty similar generals a
little well it's a little less academic
so it's gonna be a little less
science-based a little bit University
ask sort of like that a little bit sort
of more broader general reading but um
yeah hey I like this red red tablecloth
what do you think about it I think it
looks good good morning I just found
this channel it's and it's awesome I
have two days left for my exam what
should I focus on in the reading section
ok the hardest questions in reading are
wrap your head around true/false and yes
no not given the key there is to think
about the difference between not given
and false or no ok that's where people
muck it up yes and true is fine they say
the same thing in different words false
means it's cut or no means it
contradicts it says it but it says it
incorrectly and not given means you
can't really derive what the author
meant or what was it it's hard you need
to practice it you need to wrap your
head around it you need to practice that
one you need to practice matching
headings and matching information which
we did last week and should be up there
on YouTube
Oh Mohammed Wahab J I took my exam a few
weeks ago in general and the matching
headings questions came up twice and I
had 13 questions for matching headings
tough
okay okay just reading questions just
trying to find a good question okay yeah
yeah do the questions get repeated from
previous test no there no unless you
took it like a million times in order to
get 6.5 in writing should I have to use
a lot of academic vocabulary this is soo
Jeong ha um you need to use precise
vocabulary if you really if you know the
word use it if you're unsure but you
think it's a fancy word don't use it try
not to repeat the same word try to use
synonyms for example let's say let's say
it's talking about obesity you know you
can use synonyms like overweight or fat
even I don't think that would be
considered informal you know try to use
synonyms where you can try not to repeat
the same word more than if you know
several times unless there's no synonym
in which you have to for example
children there's no synonym for children
you can take kids but that's informal
the key with getting a high writing
score a couple of things one answer the
question people forget to answer the
question they get so nervous that they
write about the advantages disadvantages
when it asked them about the problem
solution answer the question read the
question prompt answer the question to
grammar write complex sentences you need
to use those sentences that are like
although da da da even though da da da
da da given that dr. da da da or those
types of sentences that have two parts
the two clauses you need that to get
past a four in grammar to be which
sounds crazy but it's true okay a few
more questions
can you please upload more general
reading papers
yes we'll always sort of in the process
of updating the website so we will in
get around to that one thing if you're
not satisfied with your reading bans and
after a plant it didn't it okay if you
get a low reading score don't apply for
remarking because the reading and the
listening is they are not subjective
that's true or false right so it will
not change if you really feel like
you're writing or speaking needs to be
re-evaluated then you can challenge it
that's possible as well I challenge my
writing three times and two times they
change the mark so it is possible
I have IELTS general to do okay wish you
luck Surabhi guys I think I'm gonna
leave it there there are how many people
this is so awesome
166 on YouTube blab and 55 in zoom well
over 200 people in this life class thank
you very much for coming I appreciate it
I think it's totally cool I I wish you
all the very best in your IELTS and I
hope you smash it and move on with your
life if you do need help do check out
the website it's full of everything you
need and the tutorials are very very
helpful the writing feedback is
extremely helpful the methods lessons
well they just sort out what you need to
do it so if you're trying to do this by
yourself it's tough if you need some
expert help from us by all means do that
but I'll leave you to it and see you
soon thanks very much